the only way to really stand out and
you're going to see this more and more
in the future is people who create
content whether it's videos images
podcasts text-based content showcasing
their experience their expertise their
Authority and trust that little extra
team that makes your content unique that
you wouldn't get from AI because the way
AI creates content is it scrapes
everything that is out there on the
internet and it produces something based
on the inputs
thank you
[Music]
guys my first question it's like the
elephant in the room A.I how is AI
changing the marketing landscape
going to me first of all it is great to
be back at the web Summit and good to
see all of you a question how is AI
changing Marketing in a massive big way
so that's the short answer the slightly
longer answer is if you go back to like
big changes in society and there's many
of them and they're happening faster and
faster and faster but go back to the
year 1460 and there was you know a guy
named Gutenberg who created the printing
press and he created this printing press
and before that they're only town criers
after the printing press there was
knowledge there was scientific
exploration there was literacy the
entire world changed so I think that's
what I think that's what AI is doing if
you look at AI it can write for us it
can create images it can track and
surveil it can create networks of bots
it can change everything that we're
doing and if you look at what marketing
is doing now from creating fun ads with
chat GPT and and imaging Bots and all of
those things there was one I saw the
other day that was for a faux pizza and
it was something like like pizza like
family but with more cheese fees so
clearly AI has a little bit of ways to
go on the on the creative side but the
other thing that's happening that I
think is important for everyone here to
know is given the networks of bots Etc
AI is changing corporate narratives
there's out there it's out there and
creating misinformation that shapes and
changes corporate narratives and
narratives of companies so companies
like mine are using AI to understand
what AI is doing to shape those
narratives and I think that's an
important thing for for all of us to
know but but for sure massive amount of
change to marketing
FX would you like to jump on that what's
your perspective on AI
well one Precision before I'm not the
president of JC ruko I'm just a data
officer social would be offended it's
big that's still big well maybe next
time
so uh but maybe AI can do miracles for
that talking about AI this is a game
changer but it's not starting last
months or six months before we've been
doing AI for a long time on on jc.com
it's been like since day one we are
using AI what is being offered now with
this new breakthrough from open air or
any other players is the capacity to do
faster and better what we were doing so
there is a matter of efficiency and as a
data officer this is what I look first
how can I do my job better and faster
not cheaper that's another issue and it
raises also especially for a marketing
company like ours the question of ethic
the question of compliance uh that will
be I believe at the center of anything
going after Tech
new 23 times in Brazil 23 times yes
amazing
what would you like to share with us
about AI
so
I think people are thinking about AI
from a mass perspective in which you can
create content at Mass scale it can help
automate a lot of things in marketing
but there's a lot of aspects that people
aren't paying attention to that are more
important
content is already very cheap to produce
whether you use AI to produce it or you
do it manually there's not much of a
difference
the big thing that we see AI is going to
change there's two main aspects
the first is analytics when we look at a
lot of the global 1000 companies and if
you look at a lot of the money being
spent on marketing It's ADS
there's a lot of inefficiencies with ads
and with changes happening with privacy
whether it's Apple iOS changes or cookie
less world
you're going to see data being harder
and harder to analyze on what's working
and what's not and the big change that
we're already seeing a trend that you'll
see more within the next 12 months with
AI is Imagine AI analyzing your
analytics in real time and telling you
where there's waste right then and there
instead of having humans analyze your
spending once a week once a month
so then it prompts a human and then from
there a human will tell you
hey yes let's stop this spend here and
reallocate the money or spend more here
because it's working that's one big
change we're seeing the second big
change is the Landscapes with most these
platforms is going to be a winner take
all here's what I mean by this
Google's releasing something called
project Maggie New York Times broke this
uh they broke the news on this so
project Magi is a new version of Google
Search in which if you search for shoes
instead of Google showing you 10 results
it'll try to figure out what you JB or
Juan Pedro or whoever it may be or you
know Marcella it'll say oh these are the
shoes that we know you'll like these are
the colors this is the size shoe you
wear here's the shoe you should buy
would you like to buy it and right then
and there on Google instead of showing
you 10 results it just shows you the
shoe that you may it may think you want
to buy if you like it you click a button
and you buy it right then and there on
Google this will change how you search
this will change also how you do
marketing because it'll be a Winner
Takes all landscape in which for SEO
it'll be one or two people taking up all
the traffic for each result for paid ads
it's going to be more Performance Based
instead of you on Facebook or Google
being used to paying per impression or
per click you're going to have to get
used to a model where you just pay per
transaction
is it is it possible to make uh Market
more personalized nowadays for the last
few years we are you know getting more
data getting more information but not
necessarily getting closer to to people
or even telling our story in a more
personalized way or the brand stories
actually so is it possible to use AI to
make marketing more personal
it is
you can use AI to make marketing more
personable but here's the issue that
that we're seeing everyone is on this
personalization kick and giving people
exactly what they want we're finding
consumers a lot of times don't know
exactly what they want so how can AI end
up telling them what they want and when
you get too personalized we're actually
seeing a drop in convert in conversion
Walmart years ago or prior to company to
focus on personalization they have this
whole Walmart Labs team and they were
just focusing on personalized every
single recommendation for people who are
buying on Walmart which is an e-commerce
company in the United States and also a
retailer in person and what Walmart saw
is when they kept trying to personalize
too much they didn't necessarily see an
increase in conversions or revenue and
we're seeing the same thing across the
board when we're working with large
corporations or even mid-sizers smaller
businesses when you get two personalized
we're not really seeing much if any
increase in Revenue it's almost of an
Overkill in fact we were talking about
data how companies big companies are
using data nowadays from your
perspective is it possible to make more
personalized using AI what will change
[Music]
personalization for years we've been
when I was at Facebook we were selling
this dream which is I'm using a lot of
data I know a lot about you so we'll be
able to have this one-to-one
conversation another world has
drastically change more regulation more
privacy and more Consciousness as
citizens of what is being done with data
and I think where AI can play a role and
if we use it correctly it's being more
personalized to create emotions
there is a traditional dive on the
performance I want more cliques I want
the impression that will sell the deal
but maybe there is a comeback around the
emotion and the capacity to deliver the
right feeling at the right moment at the
right place and coming back to something
more contextualized and I think that
location might be the new cookie to some
extent knowing exactly what is happening
in the neighborhood in a street
capturing the atmosphere and making sure
that AI helps us adapting content
adapting messaging to the Right audience
without getting it to the nitty-gritty
of this specific uh one-to-one
conversation
I think one of the things to think about
with personalization and all uh with
with my fellow panelists have mentioned
being true the but if you take marketing
to a different level and think about
public health and and information and
and the good of Public Health yes we're
going to have the ability to aggregate
all the data and at the same time
understand an individual my habits where
I go what I do when I'm doing it Etc and
with AI add data on my DNA to ultimately
look at preventive Health very very
differently that could be a very
frightening thing or it could be an
extraordinary thing that that that will
frankly change society as well so I
think that it's interesting to look at
it in that way
yeah definitely it's uh something
booming right now but what kind of other
Trends do you see coming in marketing or
things that we should be aware
as marketeers working with marketing
right now and I guess we can start with
uh that's
well depending of your position of the
position of the company I would say the
trends we are looking at there are there
is a main one which is democratization
what AI can help us doing better and
faster and getting away from this
specialization think about using natural
language to do data analytics if we can
populate capacities to audiences
especially in companies where this was
restricted to 20 people as data whatever
that would change democratize and
retransform Company to data-driven
companies and I think there is a massive
trend on that one and the other one for
us it's anticipating
how
AI will be transformative for us we used
to create content with art director we
used to have like massive session of
brainstorming to have the right ads with
uh the the right wording the right font
and from one day to another everybody
can become a not director and you need
to find the right balance between
leveraging AI for what it delivers and
also giving back to Caesar what is
belonging to Cesar being another
director is a specific job and AI cannot
replace it so there is the internal
transformation of the companies and just
the repacing a little bit uh our General
Industry in marketing
yeah you know I I feel like this onus
because I'm the only not Tech Guy on on
the panel here
um but I I think there's a trend towards
humanity and humanness if you look at
what the world has been through over the
last three or four years and you look at
the Collision of crises we've lived for
I say this as a marketer that going back
to the essence of what is human going
back to values going back to
understanding values and using that as
the foundation when I think about it as
it relates to AI remember there are
people training the machines so speaking
human to the machines making sure that
people training the machines are
representative of the world we live in
as best we can
um but I think I think the big trend is
is human keeping keeping human in the
face of the most human-like technology
we've ever seen
a trend that I see and Google calls this
e e a t it stands for expertise
Authority and Trust so what we're having
right now is people pushing out a ton of
content whether it's on social media uh
whether using mid-journey or whether
using open AI like cat GPT to end up
creating content what's happening is
everyone is trying to create the same
stuff and everything is looking like the
same thing so you guys may have seen a
book or a poster called where's Waldo
it's really really old but you would
have to spot a guy out in a crowd like
this wearing a t-shirt with white and
red stripes but now everyone looks like
Waldo everyone is wearing the same shirt
everyone's using the same technology the
only way to really stand out and you're
going to see this more and more in the
future is people who create content
whether it's videos images podcasts
text-based content showcasing their
experience their expertise their
Authority and trust that little extra
thing that makes your content unique
that you wouldn't get from AI because
the way AI craze content is it scrapes
everything that is out there on the
internet and it produces something based
on the inputs
the only way to really stand out is talk
about something unique that others
aren't talking about that's why we'll
start spreading that's this kind of
stuff that people will want to see
and this is nothing new uh Matt cuts a
ex-engineer from Google around 10 years
ago he said something around 20 to 30
percent of the content on the Internet
is duplicate now you're going to see
those ratios just jump up so unless you
do something that's unique you're not
going to stand out and you're not going
to do well in marketing
you know as I said uh technology is
getting more accessible and but
something like social media for example
that everybody uses another day or at
least most part are using how social
media specifically will change for
marketing in the next few years so I'm
not sure uh perspective on that
social media we're seeing right now is
a video based content using like deep
fake technology where you can replicate
a human and create content
um the weekend and Drake did a song
together created by AI it wasn't
actually them creating content and it
started spreading crazy on Tick Tock and
all these social platforms what you're
having these days as an issue with
social media is people want to see
content that's authentic they are
getting tired we're already seeing this
we ran a survey recently and we serve it
a little bit more than 11 000 people on
social media and their biggest pet peeve
with content on social media was it's no
longer personal
you know as she mentioned earlier
humanizing things we're getting away
from humanizing things and people want
that human element people don't want
faceless companies anymore they want
humanized companies if you look at
Rihanna she did well from Fenty because
there's a person Beyond it LeBron James
whether it's Neymar or Ronaldo or any of
these you know Kardashians like Kylie
Jenner people want
companies and marketing to be more
humanized you know I wondered whether we
could get through this without
mentioning the Kardashians but we have
not but um you know I when you think
about social media and I think it's an
important thing to think about it's kind
of changed and Tick Tock changed it
right social media was about how big is
your social graph take the Kardashians
for example so therefore we want to you
know be have the Kardashians be partners
be with us Etc we want to go to the
places and spaces and people with the
biggest social grasp Tick Tock made it
about recommendation right the
algorithms recommended what we're
looking at if I like dog videos it
recommends dog stuff and stuff that's
you know adjacent to dog step so that
gets to what Neil was talking about in
the world of recommendation media the
Creator is key the content is key the
authenticity the humanness the
uniqueness all of those things have
gotten that much more important because
it's not just pushing from the top into
massive social graphs it really is about
the compelling quality of the content
you're well known for helping big
companies large companies to to tell
their stories
and what is the main challenge for
brands or big companies Brands and even
in a personal level we are telling
stories in social media everywhere what
is the main challenge for those
companies right now well the challenge
for Brands is what is it I'm trying to
communicate what is it I'm trying to
solve knowing that like immediately then
using technology using data to get to
the right places and
um and putting out the resources to make
the kind of content and tell the stories
in a way that make a real difference and
I think that that that's always the sort
of Holy Grail for Brands you can get out
there with stuff that's meh but really
understanding where you're going using
data and technology and then making the
kind of content that moves people or
taking an action that moves people so
there's there's a number of challenges
we were talking about the market some
markets going better than others but one
thing that I've everywhere I guess it's
how Tick Tock is growing fast and a lot
of money from ads are moving uh for tick
tock what's your take on Tick Tock but
even uh who is the max tick tock
[Music]
if I knew
I would invest in right now
um no I was I was making myself was
having a thought about what you were
saying about social media and I remember
what I truly loved when Facebook emerged
it was things were true you were true
but yourself it was your right birth
date you read the name and pictures from
your family and your friend and two
years later I was having like 600 people
in my circle and actually I would have
beer with like 10 of them and then I
felt a bit disconnected and I think
going back to your question about Brands
the difficulty for Brands today is they
need to be authentic they need to be
protective they need to be cheap they
need to be meaningful and it's like a
never-ending list but they need to find
what is their true value and sometimes
go back to what they really are and what
they are meant for but coming back to
the next Tick Tock honestly
I don't know I absolutely don't know
there is one thing that we Overlook from
our I would say Western point of view is
everything coming from this world and
China is not even emerging they are as
fast as the Western World and AI will
blow up there there are so many things
happening here and social will will also
get bigger and bigger so the question is
where would be the negative stuff there
would be one one way or another but I'm
not sure it would be American or
Brazilian or Chinese but it can pop up
everywhere and here I will definitely
play a role into that
possible to optimize or SEO is optimized
engine optimization and tiktok for
example uses an an algorithm that you
can optimize and some but is it possible
to optimize the performance and on Tick
Tock for example
it is so you can optimize to get more
visibility for example Tick Tock is a
popular place to search a Google SVP
said when younger people are looking to
search for a place to eat nowadays
they're turning to Instagram or Tick
Tock to go and if you look at Tick Tock
they actually have ads in their search
so the way you optimize for tick tock is
through things like
you know are you using the right
keywords within your video they're able
to detect what your video is about it's
not just your descriptions or tags in
addition to that they're looking heavily
at comments what are the comments saying
and how engaging are the comments and
how are people reacting to them so if
the comments create more of an engaging
conversation your videos start getting
shown more on Tick Tock versus not so
you want to create content that actually
helps encourage comments and comments
that are thought provoking not comments
like I agree or yes or no they want
people to leave comments that are
competitive that are also very
thoughtful for example I did a tick tock
video on how podcasting uh blogging is
saturated blogging is not and I broke
down the stat and how there's more than
a billion blogs and less than 10 million
podcasts started leaving comments saying
no there's more podcasts than blogs
although that's not true it didn't
matter because it started creating a lot
of Engagement within their comments it
caused the video to spread that's what I
mean in which one of tick tock's big
portions to the algorithm or main
components is the engagements from a
common perspective it's easy for someone
to like something it's hard for someone
to take the time to leave a very
detailed comment
scale what do you think about the
landscape for tick tock and because it
is hard for to follow the stories going
in multiples yeah and I mean for sure
tick tock tick tock changed everything
in your to your question like what is
next I absolutely don't have the answer
however
um you know there's three billion plus
of the world's population is gaming
right and clearly marketers have not
lost sight of that marketers are a part
of of the gaming world but if I look at
fortnite or Roblox or whatever how else
should we be there what else should we
be thinking I think there's a huge
opportunity the other thing is perhaps
the sort of fusion of platforms if you
look at what happened with The Last of
Us began Life as a video game moved into
the streaming world are we looking at a
new world of inter-species collision of
platforms and what should we do in
marketing to further that or perhaps
leverage that in a bigger or better way
to get to those three billion people
whose eyeballs are sitting in the gaming
world to me there's maybe some post tick
tock something in there
the world is changing very fast and we
have right now like
events Global events Ukraine war and
kovid you know what
um how do you react to such big events
what can we do
um
to position ourselves and our brands in
this kind of environment nowadays
effects if you could go you didn't hear
the question sorry I I will I can you
hear now yeah okay I'll do it it's sorry
guys it's it's hard to hear the uh the
feedback from the our own sound that's
why it's hard sometimes to understand so
moving on so right now we have Ukraine
uh Russia many problems going around the
world and how brands should be
positioned or how what can we do uh from
a marketing perspective to to
navigate this challenging world world
once again if I had the solution I would
tell you right now now there is um so
I'm having another speech in the
afternoon and I'm mentioning one book
from nothing taleb called the blacks one
and his book is about low predictability
and high impact and this book is really
tremendous for many reasons but this one
is explained and what we do we stick and
data it's not giving answer it's being
prepared for any type of scenarios and
what I learned from the last three four
years is that whatever you do you need
to be prepared it can be a war it can be
a pandemic it could be I don't know what
next will come or next good news
but we need to be prepared
guys I would like to say sorry for
everybody we are out of time uh thank
you very much it was great uh thank you
thank you thank you